Ceres Space Colony|Ceres Space Colony is where the game begins and the scene of the discovery that the Metroids could be used for the good of galactic society. All of the scientists were killed by Ridley when he came to the colony. The colony was blown to pieces when Samus and Ridley left the station.
Crateria|The surface area of planet Zebes. The surface of the planet is plagued by acid rain -- living creatures are therefore mostly found below surface level. This is also where Samus's Starship lands.
Brinstar|The jungle area of Zebes, teeming with life. The area of Brinstar explored in this game is vastly different from that of the original mission. Kraid's Lair is located in this area.
Norfair|It lies deep below the surface and thus requires its visitors to carry sufficient protection from the incredible heat. Ancient Chozo ruins can be found in the deepest parts of Norfair, which is also where Ridley's Lair can be found.
Wrecked Ship|A long time ago, astronauts belonging to an ancient civilization crashed on Zebes. This is what remains of their space ship. The ghost Phantoon has shut down the Wrecked Ship, making most of it inaccessible at first. Before the fight, the ship is in total darkness and Coverns will materialize and attack Samus. Due to the location of the Space Pirate Mothership in Metroid: Zero Mission, fans had originally speculated that it was intended to be the Wrecked Ship depicted in Super Metroid. However, Zero Mission director Yoshio Sakamoto has dismissed this possibility, saying that the two ships are separate - during Zero Mission the player passes through an area that appears to be outside the Super Metroid wrecked ship in Crateria while the Mother Ship has not yet landed.[12] Additionally, once players obtain the Power Bomb, a small segment of the Wrecked Ship can be accessed.
Maridia|The ocean world of Zebes. Most of Maridia occupies territory that was once part of Brinstar. The area contains an aquatic Pirate laboratory where they have bred a mostly unsuccessful Metroid clone called the Mochtroid. The giant crustacean creature Draygon is the guardian of this area.
Tourian|The control center of the Zebesian Space Pirates and Mother Brain. The location has shifted to a more secure area since Metroid/Metroid: Zero Mission.